hey this is pressure Walker and you're
watching mind your decisions here is a
tremendous puzzle send plus more is
equal to money you have to solve for
each letter where each letter is a
distinct digit n is not equal to 0 and
the solution is unique I also want to
thank everyone who suggested this
problem to me it includes the following
people Darren from Oklahoma Mark from
Tennessee as well as Ryan and James camp
from Texas can you figure it out give
this problem a try and when you're ready
keep watching the video for a solution
[Music]
so before I get to the answer I highly
encourage you to work this problem out
it took me about 30 minutes to work
through the cases carefully and then
devised a way to explain it logical
puzzles like this will improve your
number sense and you can only get better
with practice so how can we solve this
well start with the fifth column
since the resulting sum is a five digit
number and the largest sum we can
produce is nine nine nine nine plus nine
nine nine nine which is less than 20,000
we can conclude M is equal to one so we
already have one of the digits which
takes two spots in this summation now we
look at the fourth column we again use
the same sort of argument since the
largest three digit sum we can produce
is nine nine nine plus nine nine nine
which is less than 2000 column three
either gives a zero carry over or it
gives a one carry over to the fourth
column so we can work through the cases
if there is no carry over we have s plus
one is equal to 10 plus O this would
imply that s
equal to 9 plus Oh in the other case
where we have a 1 carry over we have 1
plus s plus 1 is equal to 10 plus L and
this implies that s is equal to 8 plus L
since s is a single digit we must have
au is equal to 0 or au is equal to 1
anything larger would produce something
larger than 9 now since M is equal to 1
we can't have o be equal to 1 therefore
o must be equal to 0 so we figured out
another digit now we'll look at the
third column since e cannot be equal to
n because each of the letters is a
distinct digit we cannot have a + 0 is
equal to n we must have 1 plus E is
equal to n in other words there must be
carry over from column 2 now since n
cannot be equal to 0 we must have E is
less than 9 consequently column 3 cannot
produce any carry over to column 4 so
we're going to look at column 4 again
and we must have s plus 1 is equal to 10
which means s is equal to 9 so we
figured out another digit now we look at
the second column there must be carry
over from this column into the third
column so we must have n plus R is equal
to 10 plus e or if there's carry over
from the first column we have 1 plus n
plus R is equal to 10 plus e so let's
work through the first case since we
have 1 plus e is equal to n we can
substitute that in for n we have 1 plus
e plus R is equal to 10 plus e this
would imply that R is equal to 9 however
we cannot have R equal to 9 because s is
equal to 9 so we eliminate this
possibility so we solved the second case
this implies that 1 plus 1 plus e plus R
is equal to 10
see which then implies R is equal to 8
so we figured out another digit and
furthermore since we're in this case
this means there must be carryover from
column 1 because we have 1 + n + R so
we'll keep track of all this and we have
R is equal to 8 and we know that there
must be carryover from column 1 so we
look at column 1 since y cannot equal 0
or 1 those digits are already used we
must have D plus E is greater than or
equal to 12
now since D and E cannot be equal to 8
or 9 because those digits are used we
only have a couple possibilities we
could either have 7 + 5 is equal to 12
or we could have 7 + 6 which is equal to
13 so one of the digits e is equal to 7
or D is equal to 7 now suppose that E is
equal to 7 in that case e + 1 will be
equal to 8 which is equal to n but this
is not possible since R is equal to 8 so
we can eliminate that e is equal to 7
this means D is equal to 7 which means E
is equal to 5 or 6 because 7 + 5 is
equal to 12 or 7 plus 6 is equal to 13
so what would happen if E is equal to 5
or 6 well suppose E is equal to 6 in
that case
e plus 1 is 7 which would be equal to n
but this is not possible because D is
already equal to 7 so we must have E is
equal to 5 which means a plus 1 is equal
to 6 which is equal to n finally we have
7 + e which will be equal to 7 plus 5
which equals 12 so this means Y is equal
to 2 and we figured it out we have E is
equal to 5 and is equal to 6 and Y is
equal to 2 and we've solved that this
puzzle sin + more is equal to money has
a solution 9567 + 1085 is equal to 10
652 it's an incredible puzzle since
there is just a single solution and you
can work through it very carefully with
basic arithmetic did you figure it out
thanks for watching this video these
math videos which can be watched for
free
inspire and build confidence for people
around the world and they already have
over a hundred million views let's share
the beauty of mathematics with your help
we can map the world a better place
please subscribe for free to get the
newest videos watch and share all of
mind your decisions videos you can email
me a puzzle or mat topic presh and mind
your decisions comm if you so choose you
can check out my books which are listed
in the video description and you can
support me on patreon to earn exclusive
rewards thanks for watching and thanks
for your support